# Multi-Agent Path Finding
I did this project in fall 2021 as part of the course porject for [CMPT-417](http://www.sfu.ca/outlines.html?2022/summer/cmpt/417/d100). Instructor of the course was [Dr. Hang Ma](https://www.cs.sfu.ca/~hangma/). The code for visualization of the program was provided by the instructor.
## Introduction
Multi-Agent Path Finding (MAPF) is about finding shortest collision-free paths for a set of agents to take the agents from their start locations to their goal locations. Shortest path(s) for a single agent can be found using different seach algorithms includeing Breadth First Search (BFS) or A<sup>*</sup> search. However, these search algoithms cannot be generalized for multi agents. For example, if we assume that there are five possible movements (i.e. left, right, up, down, and no movement) for an agent in a given location, for two agents, there will be 25 possible movements. Therefor, the tree for the joint space search will be extremely large and inefficient to traverse.

Conflict Based Search (CBS) is one of the approaches to solve MAPF problems. In this approach, shortest path for each agent is found independently. If the paths don't collide, the MAPF problem is solved. However, if there is a collision between two paths, the collision is added as a negative constraint to the search problems of the agents. For example, if agent a and b collide at location x and at time t, the individual search problems are modified such that either agent a or agent b should not be at location x and at time t. There is another version of CBS called Improved Conflict Based Search (ICBS). In this version, if agent a and b collide at location x and time t, the collision will be added as a negative constraint to one of the agnents and as a positive constraint to another agent. For example, the individual search problems will be modified as follows: agent a must not be at location x at time t (negative constraint), and agent b must be at location x ant time t (positive constraint). ICBS has not implemented in this project.
## How to run the program:
1. Go to `env\Scripts` and activate the environment by command `.\activate`
2. Now navigate back to MultiAgentPathFinding directory and enter following command <br/>
`python .\run_experiments.py --instance .\instances\test_20.txt --solver CBS`
3. Above command takes two inputs: First input is the name of the experiment from the instances folder, e.g. test_20.txt, which specifies the grid, and the start and goal locations of the agents and the second input is the name of the solver (e.g. CBS). This project supports two types of the solvers: `CBS`, and `Prioritized`. If the prioritized solver is selected, the path of the agents will be planned independently and in order from the agent with highest priority to the agent with lowest priority. Prioritized solver is not gauranteed to find a solution for MAPF, and in case it finds a solution, the solution is not gauranteed to by optimal (i.e. an agent may have a path which is not the shortest path.) 
## References
1. Li, J., Harabor, D., Stuckey, P. J., Felner, A., Ma, H., & Koenig, S. (2021). Disjoint Splitting for Multi-Agent Path Finding with Conflict-Based Search. Proceedings of the International Conference on Automated Planning and Scheduling, 29(1), 279-283. https://doi.org/10.1609/icaps.v29i1.3487
